We left los alamos at 9:30 and were in Santa Teresa by 2:45

Santa Teresa:
The border crossing was very quick. I was able to get the FM-T and pay for it ($25) as well as the vehicle permit ($45) in less than 30 min.

required paperwork:
Passport for the FM-T
vehicle title
FM-T
drivers lisence

I didn't have to show proof of insurance, but I was later asked for it by a police officer

From Santa Theresa we went straight south toward chihuahua, and skipped Juarez and km 30 alltogether. Word from others is that the santa theresa crossing was very busy right before christmas, with a wait-time of 5 hrs or more.

The road from santa teresa south to chihuahua was in excellent shape and it was easy to go 75 mph on much of it. By the time we had crossed chihuahua, though, it was dark and the road wasn't as good, so we were only able to go about 60 mph. At one point was came across what appeared to be a large log in the middle of the road that we were able to avoid. It was a bit frightening, though. 

We stayed the night in Camargo at the hotel Santa Fe. It was spacious, with a very nicely kept courtyard. The outside seemed a bit run-down, but overall we liked it a lot. It is on the main highway, leaving town (after skirting camargo). It also had an outdoor swimming pool, for future reference. The nightly rate was $749 pesos, which was just short of $60 for a room with 2 queen beds. It was nice to have the inflatable matress. 

Going through Torreon was easy, since there were few traffic lights on the main highway. We did get pulled over by some bike cops that reviewed all of our paperwork very carefully, and were visibly disappointed to not find anything out of order. He asked for registration, import certificate, drivers lisence, and insurance. luckily, I had kept my speed down, and they had nothing of which to accuse me. I think having the yellow New Mexico plate on the front of the car is a dead giveaway for those types. Since it is just a decorative plate, we need to remember to remove it next time.

Going through santa teresa, there was no place to exchange dollars. All through chihuahua we were able to exchange dollars at the casetas for a decent exchage rate. They would only take $20 at a time, though. This gave us enough pesos, I think, for the rest of the casetas, but it would probably be necessary to stop in chihuahua for pesos at an atm. It doesn't make much sense to take a lot of dollars.

Torreon to Saltillo has been great roads so far...Saltillo was easy to get through, like Torreon, but shorter. The route goes through a town called Arteaga, though, which is somewhat slow-going. Actually, not much trafic, but it goes on for a while. 




Going back
We left Queretaro at around 9:00, and drove to Real de Catorce. There was traffic at the caseta and military checkpoint outside of san luis potosi. I think we lost around 1.5 - 2 hours there.

Going to Real was easy. We took the cuota around Matehuala and right where it rejoins the main highway, there is a retorno. There is about a 12-13 mile drive from the highway to the cobblestone, then another 11-12 miles of cobblestone up to the tunnel. I think the cobblestone may have been aroud 30 minutes. The clouds were low and there was a bit of rain, which made me concerned about the drive up to Real. I asked at a gas station if it was safe, and they said "sure". After having driven it, I think in snow or in a downpour it could be sketchy, but overall it was safe. The tunnel takes 6 minutes to cross, and is really cool. On the other side is a parking lot that is supposedly protected. We left laptops and such there.

While Paty and the kids shopped, I looked for a hotel. I asked around at 3 or 4, and prices ranged from $300 pesos to $1450 per night. The place we stayed at was $750 (regular $950) and was awesome. It was an old house, all stone construction, with a little courtyard in the middle, and rooftop access from our room. The room was quite spacious, with 3 beds and a dining area. It wasn't heated, and the evening and morning were pretty cold, but the blankets were very warm, and the water was hot. We all really liked it.

We hiked up to some ruins above the town. It looked like and old castle, and was the site of a breathing shaft for the mine. Apparently there was an entire town in ruins up there, but we didn't make it past the first "castle" as it was getting dark. We spent the rest of the evening looking in shops and eating dinner (gorditas). In the morning Paty and I went for a walk and we shopped and had breakfast.

We headed out again and drove to Jimenez. It was dark by then, and we were pretty hungry so we asked around and ended up at a hotel on the north end of town. I was $550 pesos I think. It only had 2 beds, and again we used the air mattress. 

In the morning we left for Juarez, surrounded by thick fog all the way to Chihuahua. The air was cold, and a thick layer of ice formed on the antenna, but the road was safe. We were only able to do 65 mph until we reached Chihuahua. Later we stopped for lunch in Villa Ahumada, then stopped to hand in the car permit (and tourist visa). We made it to Juarez by 3:00 and hung out with the Morales for the evening.


Some trip numbers Los Alamos to Queretaro is about 1800 miles each way. We spent appx. $75 each way in toll fees. The total expense for the trip was $1200. About $800 of that was in travel expenses, including gas, tolls, car permits and insurance. It's possibly a bit more if you include hotels along the way, and food. Of course you don't have the expense of renting a car in mexico, or riding busses.

Other stuff
Pena de bernal
Wameru
pozoleria
scorpion
Rocio's car
rebatinga
guanajuato
pipila
mercado
tunnels
took forever to leave (family)
need new gps maps
7 wonders
Escrupulos